
 <!-- mkdocs serve -->
# Welcome to the HDH library

HDH refers to *Hybrid Dependency Hypergraph*, an abstraction developped to enable the partitioning of quantum computations in the context of Distributed Quantum Computing.
HDHs are a directed hypergraph based abstraction that encodes the dependencies generated by entangling quantum operations displaying the state transformations performed along the computation.
They aim to serve as a unifying abstraction capable of encoding any quantum workload regardless of the computational model it is designed in, 
that enables all valid partitions of a computation (superseding telegate and teledata abstractions).
Furthermore HDHs, as their name implies, also encode classical information enabling the outline of natural classical partitioning points, such as mid-circuit measurements.

You can find an in depth description of HDHs as an abstraction here: [An introduction to HDHs](hdh.md). 
A more in-depth explanation of why HDHs make sense can be found here: [Why HDHs?](why.md)
Further explanations of how HDHs are generated from quantum computational models can be found here: [Generation of HDHs from model instructions](models.md).  
You can also find a Database with over 2000 HDHs here: [HDH Database](database.md).  

The source code can be found: [https://github.com/grageragarces/HDH](https://github.com/grageragarces/HDH).  
If you find any bugs or have any proposals for the library we encourage you to open an issue. 
A guide on how to do this can be found [here](https://github.com/grageragarces/HDH).  

HDHs were originally developped by Maria Gragera Garces, Chris Heunen and Mahesh K. Marina.
Publications, posters and talks related to the HDH project can be found here: [Literature](literature.md).  
The library is currently under MIT License.  
The development of this library was kindly supported by a [Unitary Fund](https://unitary.foundation) microgrant, as well as the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (grant number EP/W524384/1), the University of Edinburgh, and [VeriQloud](https://veriqloud.com).